Johannesburg – When I received my invitation to celebrate the inaugural Sunday World Unsung Heroes, I was excited because I knew there would be half-naked women, celebs making trips to the toilet and probably a cat fight as this industry is vicious, but it was not to be. The event was held at the elegant Houghton Hotel. Its beautiful burlesque-type decor with red roses and chandeliers wowed me as I entered. It was a stunning set-up and not a single person was ill-behaved. “We are celebrating the youth, from those who lead inspirational projects and forward- thinking organisations, to those who go out of their way to brighten other people’s lives,” said project manager and Sunday World’s marketing manager Anastacia Martin. Besides the elegant decor, the chosen Unsung Heroes also looked dapper. I loved Jermaine Michael Johnson’s outfit, from his “African Uncle” range, which he calls African men’s attire. I enjoyed Inge-Marne Coetzee’s speech about not owning a non-profit organisation, but being available to help people in need. I was so impressed by Mduduzi Lepele and his company Elengos Supply. He told me about his cannabis oil is great to heal a variety of ailments while enabling him to employ and assist others.   From doctors to 18-year olds, the room was buzzing with positivity and the master of ceremonies, Aldrin Sampear, did an awesome job. He even made us dance and it was so awkward watching the soft-spoken Sunday World editor Wally Mbhele dancing. You are a great editor, just never dance! Sampear was amazing and we liked that he wore a suit that was a tad tight because it’s winter and we need to see nice things. Besides well-dressed people and a great lunch, it was awesome to listen to inspirational young people, like keynote speaker Dr Athambile Masola, who is probably more articulate than the Queen of England. Mbhele commended the young men and women from across the country, who are not afraid to dream big and act.   I walked in there expecting drama but instead found young people being honoured for their good deeds. The speeches were brief and to the point, but I wasn’t listening, just perving at the sponsor’s representative, the National Lotteries Commission’s Ndivhuho Mafela, who could honestly give me long speeches any day. I’m sure he made sense, but was I was concentrating on his suit. Briefly spotted Fundudzi Media CEO David Mabilu, a great supporter of the youth and those who bring about positive change in society. I enjoyed the panel discussion, which was empowering even to us old folk – and we were glad it was straight to the point. An inspiring function that complied with Covid-19 protocols and was straight to the point. Pity there was no drama, but I still had a great time applauding the useful youth. Thanks for recognising the Unsung Heroes, and thank goodness Houghton is not far from Hillbrow, where there’s drama and action galore!   Read more on Sunday World’s Unsung Heroes by clicking here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World 