Johannesburg – Not one to miss a free meal, I took my sidekick to one of Joburg’s most anticipated sporting events, the Cell C Inanda Africa Cup. Yes, we love polo because the standard of men there is higher. Since we were on level three at the time, there were limited guests and as usual, we were sanitised and our temperatures checked, but we were never ready for the heat inside. Everyone was hot. From presenter – author and singer Andile Gaelesiwe in a fur coat and her bosoms overflowing – to designers and reality stars, the afternoon promised to be grand.   First, the place was crawling with hot men, from models to royalty – yes, Shwashwi is now royalty by association. I met a prince, Prince Simangaye Zulu and felt like a frog, then I met his brother, Prince Bambindlovu Zulu and realised there was no hope of becoming royalty through marriage when they called me aunty. The princes were down-to-earth, humble and keen on teaching the youth about the monarchy. Generally pleasant young men who did not give me a cent – I assumed royalty handed out money to peasants, but I was wrong. I left the princes alone and went to chat to the gorgeous Mihlali Ndamase in a burgundy dress showing those curves and she was her usual bubbly self, even oblivious to the fact that someone’s husband had promised her a Porsche on Twitter, to our horror.   Restraint is gone. “What, I never saw that tweet, I’d love a Porsche,” said the exquisite one, looking like she had walked off a Vogue set. Spotted Ayanda Ncwane wearing what could only be described as a wedding gown to the polo; more like a runaway bride because her brother was overheard moaning about being tired of all her interviews.   Her brother should have just stayed at home with his blanket. Keep it simple, Ayanda, there are no bridesmaids, or maybe she knew about the royals attending the event and decided to show them how ready she is to be queen. Another hottie Shwashwi was glad to see was Kaya FM’s breakfast host Thomas Msengana, who was spotted following a young woman the entire afternoon when she was not following him.   Is there love in the air, please don’t invite us to your wedding because we prefer to crash them. Great-looking girl too, one hopes they have kids because they looked so good together. It was so fantastic to attend a function without alcohol, well done Cell C. Reality star Gugu Khathi and hubby DJ Tira looked ravishing in Mzukisi Mbane creations, which complimented their Rolls-Royce.   Khathi looked like Nicki Minaj and he, like her uncle. A lovely couple who spent the afternoon staring into each other’s eyes when not posing for cameras.   Mbane was as stunning in his graphic- printed outfit, which reminded me of V – the movie. A stunning and bold collection by Mbane. It would be great if he made Ncwane an outfit next year as it was not a wedding. Johanna Mukoki got it right in her blue suit dripping with Chanel accessories. Sarah Langa is beautiful, polished and friendly. The businesswoman spent most of the afternoon chatting to everyone.   A fantastic event, which needed masks for those who lost them and yes, we love the non-alcoholic events because we are tired of drinking and driving. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World 