Johannesburg – Mauritius will allow international travellers without Covid-19 vaccinations to enter Mauritius, subject to undertaking a mandatory 14-day in hotel room quarantine, from 15 July 2021. Travellers from Réunion are also able to enter Mauritius. Mauritius is opening in phases during 2021 with the first phase from 15 July to 30 September 2021 now being extended to both vaccinated and non-vaccinated visitors. Non-vaccinated visitors from 15 July 2021 Visitors who have not been fully vaccinated are required to book a 14-night in-room quarantine stay in one of Mauritius’ quarantine hotels before departure. Visitors will stay in their room during this time and meals will be delivered to them. A quarantine hotel stay is only available for non-vaccinated international visitors and returning Mauritian nationals and can book through a tour operator, travel agent or directly with the hotel. A full list of approved quarantine hotels and entry requirements are available at www.mauritiusnow.com Fully vaccinated Travellers from 15 July 2021 – 30 September 2021 Different arrival protocols apply for fully vaccinated travellers with Mauritius launching a unique 14-day “resort bubble” holiday on the island. Fully vaccinated visitors will be able to enjoy facilities within their chosen hotel including the swimming pool and beach. If guests stay for 14 days and have negative PCR tests during their stay in the resort, they will then be able to leave the hotel and travel around the island freely for the rest of their stay, exploring the island’s many attractions. However, for shorter stays, they may leave the resort earlier and travel back home. Non or partially vaccinated visitors are unable to use a “resort bubble” package. The approved Covid-19 safe “resort bubbles” as well as entry requirements for are available on: www.mauritiusnow.com All travellers must undergo a PCR test between 5 and 7 days before departure and a negative result is required to travel to the island. Travellers will also undergo a PCR test on arrival at the airport in Mauritius, on day 7 and 14 of their resort bubble or quarantine hotel, as applicable. The announcement follows the acceleration of the vaccination campaign and the progress made towards herd immunity expected by the end of September. Tourism employees were prioritised during the vaccine rollout. This has enabled a prompt and safe restart of the Mauritius tourism industry. The country’s response to the pandemic ranked among one of the best in the world as the Mauritian Government responded promptly with stringent control measures and protocols. The safety of Mauritians and visitors has been a top priority since the outbreak of Covid-19 and the success is a result of a joint effort by the Mauritian Government and the country’s population. Air Mauritius, Emirates are other global airlines will add additional flight capacity from 15 July 2021 which will increase in the lead up to the full reopening of 1 October 2021. For full details of entry requirements and safety protocols, visit www.mauritiusnow.com. Also read: Constitutional Court finds Jacob Zuma guilty, sentenced to 15 months imprisonment Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World 