Johannesburg – SA’s rapper, TV star and businesswoman is always on the move, writes Kuli Roberts. I’ve loved Boity Thulo since I gave her a lift in my car. She was a fresh-faced, sweet young girl trying to make it in the industry. Fast forward to a few years later and she is like Midas, everything she touches turns to gold. I caught up with the rapper, presenter, TV star and beauty products mogul who is still as sweet as she was when she entered this mostly brutal and competitive entertainment industry. You are so busy, what are your current projects? Yes, I am and so grateful to God. My current projects include my perfume and my natural haircare range. [I have] my alcoholic and non-alcoholic frizzante and I am currently an ambassador for an energy drink and sanitary products. Being young and busy, what do you do to unwind? I’m always on the go, so I don’t often get the chance to be home very often. I treasure the time I am home and I like to relax with a glass of wine and catch up on all the shows I don’t get to watch. You are not just a pretty face, but wiser than folk know, how can people help with unemployment? Since my journey with entrepreneurship, it has opened my eyes to how this is an avenue to creating employment. I believe in supporting local businesses because the more we do that, the more it opens more avenues for employment. We need to work on creating more here at home. My haircare and fragrance are locally produced.   Favourite fragrance? My perfume obviously. Favourite designer? Themba Magugu and Rich Mnisi. I think they are two of the greatest creatives that have happened to this country. Their work is phenomenal, high-end and world-class. I love them! I’m loving your curves, what do you like to cook? Prawn curry is my favourite meal to cook. I love prawns. Favourite dish? My mom’s chicken feet or mogodu. Favourite hip-hop star? Jay Z.   Did you know you would be this great with hip-hop because when I met you I thought you would be a TV star? No, I never imagined this would happen for me. I didn’t think the reception would be this phenomenal and that people would join me on this journey. It’s incredible. Your music so far, what’s your favourite song and why? I have an EP [extended play record] called 4436 and my favoutire song in there is the title track 4436 because I feel like I gave my all in it and it’s the best I’ve sounded in a long time. I was really proud of how I handled the song and flow. I believe I’ve progressed so far in finding my own sound and voice, and I’m enjoying it. Who would you like to collaborate with locally and internationally? Locally – anyone! Our music scene is growing rapidly and it’s brilliant in most genres such amapiano and hip-hop. Artists are moving at their own pace and creating their own sound, which isn’t sounding like anyone else, except us South Africans. It is so inspiring because it’s so dope. However, Nadia is someone I’d like to create a dope banger with. Internationally, Drake or Cardi B – that would be epic. Who inspires you? My mom; she’s amazing! Favourite soccer team? I don’t watch soccer. I’ve seen you post some fabulous and expensive cars, what is your dream car? This changes often, but I’d love the Lambo Urus as my next car, however, the ultimate is the Rolls-Royce Cullinan. Read more: Checkout Boity Thulo’s new wheels worth millions Your success has been phenomenal, what’s your message to the youth? Remain relentless in chasing your dreams and make sure no one talks you out of your dreams. Whatever you truly believe is your purpose, you must go for it. Be wary of those who try to convince you otherwise because of their own desires for your life and wish for you to see the world the way they do. The beliefs you have, have been planted in you for a reason, so go for it no matter what. If you don’t, you’ll only have yourself to blame. So we hear you have a boyfriend, marriage anytime soon? No.   Also read: ‘Jerusalema’ singer Nomcebo Zikode in the cold as Zanda Zakuza sings her tunes Making it in the music scene: Ciza steps out of his parents shadow Sophie Ndaba is back in the spotlight Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World 