Johannesburg – Eskom has announced it will implement stage 2 load shedding from 5pm this evening until 11pm on Friday. This comes as the power utility suffered the loss of generation capacity. Eskom says it is working around the clock to replenish emergency generation reserves. “There is a probability that load shedding may be implemented at short notice should any further breakdowns occur before then,” Eskom warned. According to the statement released on Wednesday, stage 2 load shedding has been sparked by continued poor performance at the Kusile, Duvha and Tutuka power stations, as well as delays in returning some other units to service and breakdowns over the last week. “Eskom has had to extensively utilise the emergency generation reserves, which are being rapidly depleted. This period of load shedding will be used to replenish the emergency generation reserves.” According to the State-owned utility, it is currently running on 6 212MW on planned maintenance, while another 11 217MW of capacity is unavailable due to breakdowns and delays. Eskom has also warned that power outages may spill over to the weekend, depending on plants returning to service from planned maintenance and levels of the emergency generation reserves. “Eskom will continue to assess and communicate promptly as the situation changes,” the company said. The utility has reminded citizens that it will continue to implement reliability maintenance during this period, as the system is still constrained which is elevates the possibility of more load shedding. “Eskom requests the public to continue using electricity sparingly, as the system remains vulnerable and unpredictable, and we will communicate timeously should there be any significant changes to the power system.” – SAnews.gov.za Also read: Bushiri’s lawyer suing the police for R15m over unlawful arrest Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. 