Johannesburg – Scary to see celebs without their make-up on. Spotted Lorcia Cooper coming from the gym looking too natural for our liking.   FEASTING FROM THE PALM OF NOAH We are so proud of Trevor Noah’s hosting skills at the Grammy’s, which had even John Legend’s wife giving him compliments. The American A-Listers were going wild claiming “he shows up with presence, has relevant neat material while they loved his charismatic transitions”. Well done, young man.   Why does Black Coffee have a problem with his ex Enhle throwing parties at home? Jealous that she may just fi nd herself a new, hot boo?   Adam Habib, what were you thinking when you used the N-word during a video call with students? Oh, and don’t you dare say that the racial slur is used by everyone. Maybe in your home.   Like wine, it gets better with age   Shwa wants to know just how Siyabonga Thwala, who celebrated his birthday this week, maintains all that bad-boy hotness? Clearly the 50s are the new 30s. High five to Quanita, you’re truly a rare gem Why has Mzansi been sleeping on the talent that is Quanita Adams? From talented actress to writing her own series and now her first movie, Swirl, starring some of SA’s fiercest women. Well done!   Wandi’s greatest honour Great to find out that the next South African Fashion Week at the end of this month will be dedicated to Wandi Nzimande, the co-founder of Loxion Kulca. Great job Lucilla Booyzen and don’t forget Sechaba Mogale.   John Kani has an entire street named after him in Ekurhuleni which is very glamorous. We are proud of you Tata, well done. Now create a toll gate.   Queen B has stung, again Congrats Queen Beyonce for all your Grammys and well done to Blue-Ivy too, who bagged her first Grammy. Obviously, the jealous types wanted to know what those awards are for since it was Covid, but we say nothing – its Beyonce.   Chill girl, and enjoy the ride, while it lasts Why is Boity Thulo being all hush about dating the hotness that is Legend actor, Anton David Jeftha? Scared someone will snatch him? He is gorgeous personified.     Time will tell, stru! Does Khanyi Mbau plan on spending the rest of her life with beau, Kudzie? With a hip tattoo and all. How does Tebogo feel hun?   Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. 