Johannesburg – A multimillion-rand tender scuffl e has erupted as billionaire Robert Gumede’s Gijima Holdings tackles Police Minister Bheki Cele and the State Information Technology Agency (Sita) over a R88-million contract that was awarded to Gijima’s rival company. Gijima Holdings has fi led papers in the Joburg High Court to force Sita and Cele to reverse the tender that the parastatal has awarded to IN2T Technologies (IN2T). IN2T was last month awarded the tender that Gijima has been dominating for the past 20 years. The contract is for the provision of maintenance and support for the South African Police Service’s (SAPS) telephone system that manages phone calls for the cops. Cele has been thrust into the fray by virtue of being the minister of police. News of the tender war came to light last week after Gijima filed an urgent application requesting an order to force Sita to immediately reverse IN2T’s appointment and allow it to continue to provide maintenance and support for the SAPS system. But the court removed Gijima’s application from the urgent roll and granted the IT giant the right to challenge the matt er in normal court proceedings. Gumede’s company was ordered to pay Sita’s legal costs and ask the acting deputy judge president to hear its case as soon as possible. The court also ordered all the parties to submit supplementary founding affidavits by April 15 and the answering affidavit, if any, on May 14, and the replying affidavit, if any, by May 21. If the court rules in Gijima’s favour, Gumede’s company will have another bite at the cherry for the next three years. Gijima’s lawyer, Nicqui Galaktiou, said in court papers that the company wants the court to set aside Sita’s decision to appoint IN2T and instead appoint it in partnership with Advance Voice System because they were the only ones with capacity to provide the services. She added that only Gijima has exclusive access to a company providing soft ware upgrades to troubleshoot any problem in the SAPS system. “Any hardware in the platform that has to be replaced in the dozens of SAPS sites across the country will need to be licensed. Only Gijima has the right to issue such licences. “Therefore, if any hardware needs to be replaced … for the duration of the contract, which is three years, the third respondent [IN2T] will be unable to replace it lawfully on behalf of the SAPS,” read the papers. She said many other products linked to the SAPS telephone system were licensed by them, noting that since the new company took over, the system was experiencing problems and this was likely to affect many SAPS sites in the country. Galaktiou confirmed the legal challenge of IN2T. “They didn’t meet the requirement and therefore their appointment was unlawful. We hope that this matt er will be heard by July, the latest,” she said. She also said Gijima is confident of success as Sita has made the award, which is non-compliant with its own tender specifications. Gijima is no stranger to taking the state to court over tenders. A joint venture led by the group approached the courts last year after it was disqualified from road management tenders worth over R1-billion. Cele’s spokesperson, Lirandzu Themba, did not respond to requests for comment. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World Ngwako Malatji