Johannesburg – As we embrace the New Year, TikTok is shining the spotlight on a list of local creators with incredible skills and talents that everyone should watch out for this year. These creators are all bringing something remarkable to the platform. Kicking off this to-watch list is local magician, @louiscossa, from Gauteng. Louis joined TikTok last year during lockdown but has already managed to amass over 130K followers and over 1 million likes on his profile. Coming from the streets of Soshanguve, this creator brings only positive vibes and charisma to his magic tricks as he dances and sings along to soundtracks in every video. To believe it, you must see it for yourself:  Describing their account as a multilingual family breaking barriers one language at a time, @thebezfam personifies a rainbow nation family. Headed up by wife, Mariska, the account is full of comedy skits and lip-synching videos which are all created in local vernacular languages. Although most of the videos are in isiXhosa, Mariska can speak three vernacular languages. We are here for this, Mzansi!  As we watch professional skateboarder, @brandonvaljalo, skate from one level to the next, performing various manoeuvres such as heel and varial kickflips, we can’t help but endlessly scroll through his account in awe. Having won countless championship titles since beginning his skateboarding career at the young age of nine, we’re not surprised to hear that Brandon will be competing at the Olympics this year. This is just another reason you have to check him out!  Traditionally, documentaries can run for anything between 30 minutes and two hours; but local documentary-maker and TikTok creator, @documinute, is switching things up by producing minute-long biopics. This unconventional length is what sets this storyteller apart, as the creator can tell beautiful stories about South Africans while keeping things short and sweet – which means we get to watch even more videos.  Makeup and beauty enthusiast, @leratolegae, is all about creating stunning looks on her TikTok account. Her love for the art drove her to start this account where she shares various short makeup tips and tutorial videos. What some may not know is that she is also actually a Business Analytics Specialist by day, with an honours degree in accounting. B Beauty and brains – the perfect combination. Check out some of her creative work below:  If you’ve been on the internet long enough, you may have come across popular animation creator, Noko Mashaba. Having built a strong brand before joining TikTok, Noko managed to grow a vast following in just three weeks of joining the platform. One of his recent works includes a video done for the Department of Health about COVID-19 which has also been seen on billboards. In addition to his loved comedy skits, Noko has also been taking part in TikTok’s dance trends. See below:  Looking for advice and tips to get that summer body? @noeldeyzel_bodybuilder is the account you should check out! This heavyweight and bodybuilder offers advice on everything from fitness tips and training plans, to what foods to eat. With his videos easily hitting 3 million views, he is definitely doing something right and could help you out too! See how below:  For TikTok dancer and petrol attendant @akimjoubert, going to work is never boring. This is because Akim uses any spare time he has to keep up with the latest TikTok trends, where he can show off his epic dancing skills. The Durban-based creator has made a mark for himself on the platform as a dancer in the forecourt of the fuel station he works in. He manages to get his colleagues involved in the fun too:  If there is anything we can agree on, it is the unmatched soccer skills of Paul Pogba – the talented Manchester United midfielder. Clearly looking up to Pogba, a local female footballer and TikTok creator has decided to name herself @lady_pogba; in hopes of joining the family lineage of soccer players. Her account is full of soccer-related content from training sessions to on-field singing sessions that make the sport so beautifully local. Check out her videos below to see what else she’s sharing:  Originating from the Congo, and currently staying in Mzansi, female creator, @triciampisi’s TikTok page is full of culture, entertainment, heritage and the celebration of #BlackIsBeautiful. She posts about food, colourism, African history and African hair. To listen to her opinions on a range of topics, check out her account:  Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World 