Johannesburg – Between January 2020 and January 2021, Auto & General Insurance has noticed a spike of 47% in tyre and rim claims, raising the question of whether poor road maintenance is to blame. Steep claim increases were observed in Gauteng, Kwa-Zulu Natal and Mpumalanga, and, although claims have shown a steady increase for both men and women, a significant amount of claims were submitted by men aged between 31 and 37 who drive newer vehicles. “This is a significant increase and badly maintained roads are a serious concern. One bad patch of road could lead to punctures, tyre bulges, bad wheel alignment and balancing, uneven tyre wear, cracked rims, damaged undercarriage, damaged tyre walls and blowouts, which could very well cost you your life,” says Ricardo Coetzee, Head of Auto & General Insurance. Saied Solomons, President of the South African Road Federation (SARF) recently stated that roads that are not timeously and properly maintained are costing South Africa millions, with costs soaring even higher when a lack of maintenance sees a road rapidly deteriorating to the point of requiring total road rehabilitation. Other knock-on effects that add to the real cost of poorly maintained roads include frequent vehicle repairs, higher transportation costs, bottlenecks on busy routes and more. Auto & General provides the following guidelines for navigating poorly maintained roads: Your vehicle: Proactive maintenance: Make sure that your car is checked and serviced regularly. A vehicle that is 100% ready to light up, steer around or meet challenging road surfaces are the best first line of defence. On spec: Make sure that the wheels and tyres that you fit match the manufacturer’s specification and that tyres are properly inflated to create an adequate cushion between the vehicle’s rims and the road surface. Profile carefully: Low profile tyres may give a vehicle a sportier look, but reduce the space between the rim and the road surface. Fit tyres that are in the “Goldilocks zone” between being sporty, offering comfort and protecting against rough road surfaces. Ideally opt for tyres with rim protectors. Emergency kit: Make sure that your vehicle is equipped with the basic wheel changing tools and safety equipment. Your driving: In the event of a potentially damaging incident or accident: “Aside from applying these tips and insisting that authorities step up to make our roads safer, it’s absolutely vital to make sure that you have vehicle insurance – including tyre and rim cover – in place.” Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. 