Johannesburg – South Africa recorded 11 859 new Covid-19 cases, the department of health said last night. The department further said that the cumulative number of cases in the country now stands at 1 100 748. The department further said, “Total number of tests done is 6 742 853 . Number of new tests done is 36 622 . Number of new deaths is 402 bringing the total to 29 577. Number of recoveries is 903 679 at a recovery rate of 82,1%.”   Yesterday, Setswana contemporary super star musician Kori Moraba has died at the age of 73 after he had tested positive for Covid-19. It is believed that Moraba died at the Netcare Bougainville Hospital in Hercules in Pretoria west last night. He had been hospitalized for the past two weeks after contracting the coronavirus. Moraba shot to fame after his hit song Tswang-tswang-tswang was released in the early 70s. Also read: Setswana music star Kori Moraba dies after contracting Covid-19 This sad news comes shortly after Sunday World learned that the son of former president Nelson Mandela’s doctor also passed away after contracting the virus. According to a Sunday World source, Wandile Motlana, passed away after he had tested positive for Covid-19. Wandile was the son of Nelson Mandela’s family doctor, Nthato Motlana. Read more: Son of Mandela’s family doctor passes away after testing positive for Covid-19 After learning of the passing of Moraba, the ruling party offered their condolences to the family. “The African National Congress (ANC) has learned with sadness about the passing of South African music legend, Kori Moraba. He was reportedly admitted in hospital after showing Covid-19 symptoms and passed on Sunday morning. His death marks the end of a golden chapter in the history of South African music,” the ANC said in a statement. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World 