Johannesburg – The National Credit Regulator (NCR) has urged the public to start 2021 on a good note by spending and borrowing wisely. In a statement on Tuesday, the NCR said some consumers are currently finding it difficult to meet their financial obligations such as school fees, school uniform, transport and rent, among others. “It is that time of the year where some consumers will feel like ‘Januworry’ is three months long because of their financial situation. Consumers who might need to borrow money or take out credit should read and understand their credit agreements before signing,” said the regulator’s Acting Manager: Education and Communication Anne-Carien Du Plooy. According to the National Credit Act (NCA), consumers have a right to receive information in a plain and understandable language and to receive reasons from the credit provider if their application is declined. “If all registered credit providers decline your application, it means that there is a problem prompting a need to work on your finances as your financial woes might be bigger than you realise. This is the time to seek assistance by negotiating for lower instalments with your current credit providers, paying off and closing some accounts.” This can be done through the downgrading of one’s lifestyle and also through budgeting when one can check what one can eliminate as well as what can be downgraded. Du Plooy urged consumers to avoid unregistered credit providers such as “mashonisas/ skoppers” to access credit as they will pay dearly at the end. “Unregistered credit providers charge exorbitant interest rates and use other illegal collection mechanisms such as card retention. Consumers should not agree to pay an ‘upfront fee’,” warned Du Plooy. The fee is charged mostly by unregistered or even fake credit providers before they give the consumer the money they are applying for. The fee also has several names such as attorney’s fees, release fee and admin fee. In terms of the National Credit Act, it is illegal for a credit provider to make a consumer pay them upfront. “Consumers should not confuse this with a deposit as there is no deposit when taking out a loan. The bottom line though, is that the prospective credit provider will never give you the money you are requesting, they will suck you dry before they vanish. Know your rights and spare your money,” she said. The NCR also shared the following tips with consumers: The regulator is mandated with the registration of credit providers, credit bureaus, debt counsellors, payment distribution agents, and alternative dispute resolution agents; and monitoring their conduct in compliance with the National Credit Act as amended. The National Credit Regulator offers education and protection to consumers of credit in promotion of a South African credit market that is fair, transparent, accessible and dynamic. – SAnews.gov.za Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World 