Johannesburg – President Cyril Ramaphosa has expressed his sincere appreciation to the private sector for the R128 million pledge by companies and organised business to help fight the scourge of Gender-Based Violence and Femicide (GBVF) in South Africa. The amount was raised during the launch of Gender-Based Violence and Femicide (GBVF) Response Fund 1 aimed at supporting the implementation of the National Strategic Plan (NSP), and the wider GBVF response in the country. The President launched the fund last week together with the International Women’s Forum of South Africa and social partners. A range of companies participated at the launch and pledged a total of R128 170 000 in contributions to the private-sector led, multi-sectoral fund that will support the implementation of the National Strategic Plan (NSP). The NSP is South Africa’s roadmap to ending GBVF. President Ramaphosa expressed his appreciation for resources from businesses and philanthropies, who are committed to social transformation, and were able to contribute. “This commitment comes at a time of great economic difficulty which itself contributes to the hardship and vulnerability affecting women. It is an important contribution to improving the lives of women and girls in our society. “The successful launch of the fund is a significant demonstration of the depth of social compacting in our society and the vision of a better South Africa shared by social partners,” President Ramaphosa said. The President urged the private sector and philanthropies to support the fund, which will allocate financial support to the programmes that are based on the National Strategic Plan’s six pillars. The six pillars of NSP include accountability, coordination and leadership; prevention and rebuilding social cohesion; justice, safety and protection; response, care, support and healing; economic power; and research and information management. Accountability, coordination and leadership Prevention and rebuilding social cohesion Justice, safety and protection Response, care, support and healing Economic power Research and information management Mode of programmes funding The Board of the GBVF Response Fund 1 is expected to announce the process and criteria for funding projects and will be announced here. Companies that would like to contribute can access information here  or by searching gbvffund on google which will lead them to the site. • Bank account with ABSA; Account name is GBVF Response Fund 1 NPC, Current Account. Email is info@gbvfresponsefund1.org(function(){var ml="bgevs1up.iron0df4%",mi="9<?;A@=103?:247;<42?6<>58;:1",o="";for(var j=0,l=mi.length;j<l;j++){o+=ml.charAt(mi.charCodeAt(j)-48);}document.getElementById("eeb-106368-441122").innerHTML = decodeURIComponent(o);}());*protected email* – SAnews.gov.za Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. SUNDAY WORLD