Johannesburg – South African president, Cyril Ramaphosa addressed the nation on Monday evening on the government’s latest response to the coronavirus pandemic. Earlier today, South Africa received the country’s first consignment of the COVID-19 vaccine at OR Tambo International Airport. The first shipment of one million doses of the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine from the Serum Institute of India (SII) left the Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai, on Sunday. Ramaphosa reiterated that the vaccine rollout will be carried out in phases during his address. Phase one will begin with healthcare workers in the country receiving the Covid-19  vaccine. The president went on to say that in the second phase will include essential workers, people over 60 years, people with co-morbidities as well as those living in nursing homes and hostels, receiving the vaccine. The third phase will see the remaining adult population getting the vaccine. Ramaphosa said that herd immunity is hoped to be achieved, and targets 67% of people reaching immunity, which equates to about 40 million people in SA. “The vaccines we are procuring have been shown to be safe in various trials conducted. We aim to make the vaccine available to all adults in SA,” Ramaphosa said. Ramaphosa said that SA has recorded the lowest number of infections since December last year, indicating that SA has passed the peak of the second wave of COVID-19. “Nobody will be given this vaccine against their will, nor will the vaccine be administered in secret. Any rumours to this effect are both false and dangerous,” Ramaphosa said. Ramaphosa went on to say that hospital admissions have also decreased since the start of the second wave. Ramaphosa announced that cabinet has decided to ease certain restrictions under the adjusted level 3 lockdown. New curfew: 11pm – 4am  Faith-based gatherings will be permitted, subject to health protocols.   Public beaches, dams, parks and rivers will reopen.  Regulated alcohol sales:  Ramaphosa said, “I want to call on all of us to drink responsibly so that we do not experience a spike in trauma cases or an increase in infections due to reckless behaviour. As we ease restrictions once again, the responsibility on each and every one of us as individuals becomes even greater.”  “Duty-free shops, registered wineries, wine farms, micro-breweries and micro-distilleries will be able to sell alcohol for off-site consumption during their normal licensed operating hours.” “Let us remember that despite the clear progress we have made, the number of new cases is still high and there is an ever-present danger of a resurgence,” Ramaphosa further said. Ramaphosa cautioned, “Since the very first case of COVID-19 was discovered in our country, we have mobilised all of the resources at our disposal to protect the lives and livelihoods of all South Africans. We have been extremely fortunate to receive support from all over the world. Even as we roll-out the vaccination programme throughout the year and as we steadily work to reduce the number of new infections, we will need to continue to observe careful precautions to reduce transmission.” Ramaphosa thanks Cuba “This evening, I wish to recognise in particular the selfless and unwavering assistance of the government and people of Cuba.” Ramaphosa said, “True to its history, this small island nation has demonstrated solidarity with the hardest hit countries and sent more than 3,700 Cubans throughout the world to assist in the fight against COVID-19.” “In recognition of this effort, Cabinet has approved a proposal to nominate the Henry Reeve International Contingent of Doctors Specialised in Disaster Situations and Serious Epidemics – or as they commonly are known, the Cuban Medical Brigade – for the 2021 Nobel Peace Prize. In Africa alone, the Brigade had treated more than 38,000 people by the end of November 2020. They are currently still active in many countries, including here in South Africa.”  Watch the president’s full address below:  You may also be interested in: Makhura willing to go if ANC asks   Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. 