Johannesburg – The lifting of the Fifa player transfer ban imposed on Kaizer Chiefs two years ago was lifted on July 1, setting the stage for Amakhosi to invade the market in a big way. Chiefs were prevented from signing new players for two consecutive window periods. With Amakhosi having last signed players from other teams back in January 2019, the technical department has wasted no time in recruiting at least seven new players to don the colours of the Phefeni Glamour Boys in the upcoming season, Chiefs announced on its social media platforms. Prior to the signing of players, the club brought in a new technical team with the respective appointment of coach Stuart Baxter and head of technical, Molefi Ntseki towards the end of the previous season.
During the ban, there was an emergence of several youngsters from the youth structures who gained valuable DStv Premiership experience that will add to the competition for places in the Amakhosi line-up in the new season. Chiefs’ recruitment process for the 2021/22 season has already yielded Brandon Peterson, Sifiso Hlanti, Phathutshedzo Nange, Njabulo Ngcobo, Sibusiso Mabiliso and Kgaogelo Sekgota. In addition, Chiefs have decided to retain one of the club’s brightest youth development Academy graduates, midfielder Given Thibedi, who is back following a loan spell with Swallows. Thibedi, now 23, will vie with former youth teammates Nkosingiphile Ngcobo and Njabulo Blom for spots in the Amakhosi midfield. He will wear jersey No 13. His contract will run until June 2023.
Peterson, 26, is a goalkeeper who last played for now-sold Wits University over a season ago. He spent the last campaign training with Amakhosi and familiarising himself with set-up in Naturena. The Capetonian will wear jersey No 16 and has signed a three-year contract. Along with Peterson and Nange, 31-year-old defender Sifiso Hlanti played for Wits two seasons ago. He joined Swallows, where he spent one season. The 24-cap Bafana Bafana left-back now joins Amakhosi with substantial PSL experience. He has played for a number of teams and earning a league championship title with Wits. Hlanti has been handed jersey No23 and will be with Amakhosi until June 2023.
Another left-back comes in the form of Mabiliso, 22, who joins Chiefs from AmaZulu. The Rustenburg-born player will wear jersey No 26. The youngster has been selected in the 20-man squad that will participate in the 2020 Tokyo Olympics later this month.
Nange, 29, hails from Thohoyandou and spent the last season with Stellenbosch in the Western Cape. He had a stellar season that saw him score a number of crucial goals to win key matches with Stellies. The box-to-box midfielder has signed a two-year contract and will carry No 24 on his back at Amakhosi. Chiefs have also signed PSL Defender-of-the-season nominee Njabulo Ngcobo (27) on a three-year deal from fellow Soweto giants, Swallows FC. The Mthwalume-born player (South of KwaZulu Natal) will wear jersey No 27.
Ngcobo will be accompanied by another of Swallows’ exciting players from last season, Seshego-born Kgaogelo Sekgota (24). The winger nicknamed Kigi had an outstanding season with the Dube Birds and will join Chiefs for three years until June 2024 He has been handed jersey No 14. Currently, Peterson, Hlanti, Nange and Thibedi have started training with the team. The rest of the players will join the team as soon as they finish their national team duties after the CAF Champions League final. “We would like to welcome all the new players to Kaizer Chiefs,” said Amakhosi football manager Bobby Motaung.
“We certainly hope our supporters will be happy with our new recruits because some called for us to sign them. We trust that they will have a good time and help bring happiness to millions of our fans by helping the team perform well and win trophies.” The club will make further announcements on players once negotiations have been finalised after the CAF Champions League final.  Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World Xolile Mtshazo