Johannesburg – A few weeks ago, fashion designer Quiteria Kekana (38) revealed that he had been diagnosed with Multiple Myeloma in April 2021 during the Covid-19 pandemic. He started feeling tired, lost his appetite, experienced aches and pain in different parts of his body, and was always tired and confused. Designer to the stars revealed exclusively to Sunday World how he had to leave his upmarket penthouse and move back home to Soweto where he is in the care of his mother. “It’s a sacrifice I needed to make for my recovery once the medical bills kept piling up,” Quiteria says. He started feeling sick after he was accused of fat-shaming comedian Lesego “Coconut Kelz” Tlhabi in an incident that happened at his studio in Melville last year. Lesego took to Twitter to expose the alleged body-shaming which Quiteria denied. Following the incident, fans attacked him and threatened to hurt him physically and still stood by his words that he never shamed the comedian. “If it wasn’t for someone saying I fat-shamed them I wouldn’t have probably found out at this stage that I had Multiple Myeloma. The trauma I got from being attacked and threatened put a strain on my health,” he says. “The cancer was not caused by that, but the attacks affected my health immensely. I was stressed. I developed skin patches and lost energy, I was fatigued, and my body couldn’t take the stress. I experienced inflammation in different parts of my body.” After numerous tests, a diagnosis was concluded. Since then, he is on a road to recovery and is being assisted by the Endless Hope Butterfly, a foundation that assists those fighting cancer. “They have set up a fund for me to be able to receive donations for my treatment,” Quiteria says. “It has been tough, having to think positively, work on my health and being responsible for the lives of those that I work with and their families,” Quiteria says. “We truly pray for better days.” To donate towards Quiteria’s medical scheme, visit Endless Hope Butterfly. Also read: Beyoncé’s designer fighting for his life is back at home in Soweto Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World Theo Nyhaba