Johannesburg – The first time I met the 46-year old world-renowned musician, Zwai Bala, was not after one of his amazing concerts, but at my house when he was helping my ex-husband move out. But as awkward as it was, I enjoyed his music, kindness and versatility. Currently, the musical adviser on Old Mutual’s Amazing Voices, a choral music competition, the ever-grinning Bala is one who deserves his flowers. So, let’s get to know the other side of the Uitenhage-born father of three, who was also, at some time point, a member of kwaito outfit TKZee. You are not just a musician, but have been dabbling in many other TV genres, tell me more about your second season of Amazing Voices. How is it different for you? The levels are just higher from all points of view. From general talent to production and all in between. I think now that everyone has seen what it can be from the first season, they can begin to imagine creatively where and how they can take things further. You are very well-travelled, what’s the worst dish you have ever had? Once upon a time, while on tour in Taiwan, we were offered a traditional dish – a greyish black “delicacy” that’s a bit like a hardboiled egg surrounded by a jelly-like casing. To make the dish, they age an egg from weeks to months in salt, lime and ash. They say blacks don’t read, what’s your favourite book? The Voice of Knowledge by Don Miguel Ruiz.   Obviously the Bala Brothers are very popular, but who are your other favourite musician? Putuma Tiso and Smokie Norful. Would you bungee jump, if not why not? Never. It is not necessarily heights that I am scared of, but a free fall makes my guts (and other bits I didn’t even know I had) feel in a rather rude way. We have just gone into another hard lockdown and the previous ones were marred by incidences of gender-based violence (GBV), what are your thoughts on GBV? I am very much opposed to it and condemn it strongly. I don’t believe in South Africa we deal with issues as serious as GBV and racism, for example, in the most eff ective way. We tend to be more reactive than proactive. You are doing a great job on the show, what’s your favourite choir in general? How about a vocal ensemble versus a choir? In that case, right now it would have to be AfricaRiz (Old Mutual Amazing Voices Season 1) and 121 Selah (Season 2). We love the choirs and the eclectic ensembles, which one is the best-dressed choir? I think I like how they are all different when it comes to style and they are comfortable with whatever outfits they decide to wear and that’s important. You have three beautiful kids, what’s their favourite game? Spending time with them is good enough for me. I know they like my jokes. Watch:  Also read: Lebo M leaves trail of destruction at posh Joburg golf estate SAMA27 honours SA icons with Lifetime Achievement Awards Life with Kelly Khumalo, to premiere on Mzansi Magic Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World 