Johannesburg – Songstress Nomfusi Ngonyama, known mononymously as Nomfusi, is making a much welcome return with a new single, Iqaqa. The song is taken from an isiXhosa idiom “Iqaqa aliziva kunuka” which loosely means “people generally are unable to see or recognize their faults“. A true surprise for her fans, this track is bound to make much talking. It will resonate with those going through emotional abuse in their relationships and marriages. The Gqebera-born artist shares that she wrote the song in the mountains of Austria with two German band members creating musical beats. “It was a fun and relaxed session. It was a therapeutic exercise as I was going through a disagreement with my husband which left me thinking he did not want to acknowledge his faults at that time.” She adds that inspired by the experience she created a fictional storyline of a woman leaving her relationship because of a man being too much of “Iqaqa” “The song addresses issues of judging, criticizing, domination, control, shame, accusing, and blaming among other things. Many people in their marriages and relationships are burdened with trivial and unreasonable demands and expectations in their marriages while their partners deny their shortcomings,” she says. She adds that she would love couples to start practicing admitting and identifying their faults. “Let’s learn to communicate about everything, even things we are not comfortable about. Many relationships and marriages die because people do not talk about the issues that hurt them. Get help if need be,” advises Nomfusi. Nomfusi shares that she enjoyed penning the song as it did not only provide an outlet for her but was also fulfilling as its writing was part of preserving the isiXhosa language. “I love using Xhosa clicks as much as possible in my writing as part of preserving the Xhosa language,” she explains. Nomfusi is planning to release a full album in August 2021 and will be embarking on tours in South Africa and Europe. Listen to the new song below:  Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World 