Johannesburg – Suspended ANC secretary- general Ace Magashule is losing further ground in his erstwhile stronghold of the Free State, his home province. Sunday World has reliably learnt that Free State sports, arts, culture and recreation MEC Limakatso Mahasa, has dumped him in favour of ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa. Mahasa, a well-known Magashule supporter, switched allegiance and joined Ramaphosa’s faction called “ CR 22”, which is spearheading the incumbent’s presidential second-term campaign. News that Mahasa dumped Magashule for Ramaphosa comes a few months after we reported that Free State premier Sisi Ntombela had also kicked Magashule to the curb and joined Ramaphosa’s coterie. The province’s provincial executive committee was disbanded and replaced with an interim provincial committee led by former economic development MEC and Magashule’s nemesis Mxolisi Dukwane. Other members include Seiso Mohai, the ANC chief whip in the National Council of Provinces and former provincial secretary Paseka Nompondo. Provincial chairperson Sam Mashinini, one of Magashule’s strongest supporters, has been excluded from the interim structure. The province is said to be divided into two factions – one supporting Ramaphosa’s campaign to retain his position and another one led by Magashule allies who want to unseat him when the organisation holds its elective conference next year. Magashule was chairperson of the province for more than two decades. The sources told the Sunday World that Mahasa and Magashule’s relationship disintegrated when he was implicated and charged in the scandalous asbestos tender worth over R400-million in the Free State. “She is an anti-corruption politician because she knows the negative impact corruption has on the poor masses of our people. But after consultation with Ace’s other supporters, she decided to wait and see how the case pans out,” said the deep throat. The tipster said the last straw that broke the camel’s back was when Magashule unilaterally suspended Ramaphosa and claimed that he had the powers to do so. “That was the end of it and it’s a blow for Ace and a boost for Ramaphosa because she is known to be a hard worker. She has also started recruiting the youth to join their campaign to revive the ANC in Free State. Mahasa had already rolled up hersleeves and running CR22 programmes. Mahasa said: “You are asking me a difficult question and therefore it is difficult for me to answer or to even comment on the matter you are raising,” she said. Also read: Watch live: Jacob Zuma’s ConCourt sentence review SA falls into a state of lawlessness as protests and looting continues Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World Ngwako Malatji