Johannesburg – The South African president, Cyril Ramaphosa, has said the toll of the devastating violence on citizens will take a long time to repair, in his address to the nation after visiting Kwa-Zulu Natal on Friday. “The streets and buildings I saw bear the scars of looting and mayhem.   But what is most devastating is the toll that these events have taken on people’s lives, livelihoods and sense of security,” Ramaphosa said. “Let me be clear: we will take action to protect every person in this country against the threat of violence, intimidation, theft and looting. We will not hesitate to arrest and prosecute those who perpetrate these actions and will ensure that they face the full might of our law,” Ramaphosa warned. “The constitutional order of our country is under threat.   The current instability and ongoing incitement to violence constitutes a direct contravention of the Constitution and the rule of law,” Ramaphosa said. “These actions are intended to cripple the economy, cause social instability and severely weaken – or even dislodge – the democratic state. Using the pretext of a political grievance, those behind these acts have sought to provoke a popular insurrection,” Ramaphosa said.     Chaos used as a smoke screen “The ensuing chaos is used as a smokescreen to carry out economic sabotage through targeted attacks on trucks, factories, warehouses and other infrastructure necessary for the functioning of our economy and the provision of services to our people,” the president said. “Through social media, through fake news and misinformation, they have sought to inflame racial tensions and violence.   Worst of all, they have sought to manipulate the poor and vulnerable for their own benefit. Yet, despite the widespread destruction, this attempted insurrection has failed to gain popular support.” “It has failed because of the efforts of our security forces, and it has failed because South Africans have rejected it and have stood up in defence of our hard-won democracy. As that determination in action today as I walked through the streets of eThekwini.   I saw people cleaning up the streets, rebuilding their lives, standing together united in their diversity – young and old, men and women, black and white,” Ramaphosa said. Deaths from unrests Also read: Unrest and looting were instigated, says President Ramaphosa Twitter brands Ramaphosa’s Durban visit a ‘publicity stunt’ Government meets with top company CEOs to chart the way forward President Ramaphosa finally makes appearance on the ground since looting began Mop up operations commence in Gauteng Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World Sunday World