Johannesburg – The South Gauteng High Court on Thursday reserved judgment in the application by national first division club Royal AM to have PSL acting CEO Mato Madlala be held in contempt of court. Judge Leonie Windell is expected to hand down a decision sometime next week. The Durban club has argued in court papers that the conduct of removing them from number one, to position two on the GladAfrica Championship league log was found by Judge AJ Nyathi to be inconsistent with the constitution and the Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA). Royal AM’s appeal and argument at the high court is that they are entitled to automatic promotion to the PSL, something Madlala as the PSL head failed to carry out. Royal AM went the legal route against the PSL since the League declared Sekhukhune United the first division GladAfrica Championship winners, instead of the Durban side that had won the promotion on the field of play. This comes after Safa arbitrator advocate Hilton Epstein declared Sekhukhune the first division champions via an arbitration process that ended with the Limpopo side being awarded three points and Royal AM, as runners-up required to contest the PSL promotion/relegation play-offs last month. Sekhukhune had protested against Polokwane City after the latter failed to include five under-23 players on their team sheet for the match between the two Limpopo sides in January. Pending the appeal process, Royal AM decided not to honour the promotion/relegation play-offs, citing their right to be granted automatic promotion as the reason for boycotting the matches. Royal AM’s no-show stance resulted in Chippa United retaining their top-flight status.
The PSL has meanwhile hurled Royal AM to a disciplinary committee hearing scheduled to sit on Saturday. Also read: President Ramaphosa finally makes appearance on the ground since looting began Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World Xolile Mtshazo