Johannesburg – Lockdown has people depressed, unemployed but we found ‘Private School Piano’ DJ’s and found out how they were surviving being out of work Great to see young people hustling, what is so special about you two and what do you offer that’s unique? We are “Kwest-Tox” #SkeemSaseHarvard, a Private School Piano Duo Djs/Producers based in Tembisa. Real names Thulani Ngwenya(26) & Ndabenhle Ledwaba(26). Well known in Tembisa as #Kwest-Tox #SkeemSaseHarvard because of our work “Ukushaya inamba” Private school piano ” making people dance, happy, and mostly to bring laughter, hope and joy in their hearts through the type of Piano we play #PrivateSchoolPiano. That’s how unique we are” For those who were under a rock, Amapiano is a South African style of electronic dance music that first appeared in 2016. A subgenre of house and kwaito. Which is distinguished by its use of smooth jazz elements and piano melodies, kwaito baselines, low tempo 90s South African house rhythms and percussion from another local house subgenre known as ‘Bacardi’ adds Thulani Ngwenya. Lockdown had affected everyone. How have you been managing? “Lock has affected us in many ways” eish this really breaks our hearts because we do this for living, we got families to feed as well and from the bottom of our hearts because we love what we do.”    Why did you become DJ’s? Did your parents not want you to be Doctors? ‘To make music and not become Doctors or Engineers, it’s because of love of music yazi we really love music, when we there on the Decks doing our thing the joy we get from seeing people happy,Dancing, some crying because of Happiness, hope and joy we bring when we in their hearts”. You offer private School Piano, where can we catch you perform when Lockdown is over? “You can always get us @SBSLifestyle Carwash (Midrand) we are residents djs there on Sunday until this Covid lockdown came through. “ Actually what is Private School Piano? “It’s exclusive underground Piano which is not easily available. It’s the underground Piano that has no clout or swearing in it and it the matured Piano. We call it Private School Piano because its too private and not commercial Piano ‘   If people want to book you how do they get hold of you?
Social Media Handles.
Twitter : Kwest-Tox
Facebook : Kwest-Tox
Instagram : Kwest-Tox Considering what you know would you still choose to be a DJ? “Oh, yes considering covid we would still choose this music career because we do this from the heart, that’s why people adore us.” How are you surviving within this Lockdown as you can’t DJ? ‘We also got 9-5 jobs as our side hustles”. Well there you have it young people with multiple streams who don’t wait for things to happen but make them happen. Book them as soon as Lockdown is over.   Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World 