Johannesburg – The President of South Africa, Cyril Ramaphosa, will address the nation later today, Monday, 12 July 2021, on government’s response to persistent public violence in parts of the country. This is according to the presidency. The exact time of the President’s address has not been announced yet. The address will follow the announcement by the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) that it has commenced with pre-deployment processes and procedures in line with a request for assistance received from the National Joint Operational & Intelligence Structure (NATJOINTS). The request entails SANDF support for police operations in parts of KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. “In terms of Section 201(2)(a) of the Constitution, the President may authorise the deployment of the national defence force in cooperation with the police service and must inform Parliament of such employment,” the presidency said in  a satement. The President is on record as calling for calm and warning criminal elements that they will face the full might of law as lawlessness is brought to an end and economic activity is allowed to continue. “The majority of South Africans do not and should not tolerate violence, the destruction of property and the endangering of livelihoods. People are urged to report criminals by sharing videos of criminal activity with the police. People are also asked to pay attention to what they post on social media and to be aware that the sharing of fake news or content that incites violence and looting is a crime. It is also a crime to possess, receive and use stolen goods, or to interfere with the police in their execution of their duties,” the presidency further stated. Just yesterday, during the president’s address to the nation on government’s latest response to the coronavirus pandemic in the country, he urged South Africans to remain cautious and not break lockdown regulations. This plea fell on deaf ears, as protests and looting intensified on Monday. Also read: #ShutdownSA protests intensifies as army is deployed Gauteng protests hindering Emergency Medical Services responding to distress calls Watch: Zuma’s children show support for their dad and criticises Ramaphosa leadership Kwesta dealt financial blow as EP is blocked due to Ayanda Jiya’s dispute with producer Ayanda Ncwane quits Real Housewives of Durban Open Mic Productions backs up Master KG claims over Jerusalema royalty claims Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World Sunday World