Johannesburg – The Gauteng government said it remains concerned of the impact the recent sporadic acts of violence and lawlessness in parts of the province are having on the provision of services across the province. “The current volatile environment has seen the people of Gauteng struggling to get to their places of employment due to limited access, and services being disrupted across the province. To this end, some provincial government services, including vaccination sites in the affected areas, have had to temporarily close due to safety concerns by both the staff and members of the public,” Provincial government said in a statement. The government said that Emergency Medical Services (EMS) teams are equally experiencing difficulty in responding to distress calls in communities due to limited access. “The situation is being assessed by the provincial law enforcement agencies who are now being assisted by the South African National Defence Force (SANDF). As Gauteng and the country are still in the midst of a deadly pandemic, the provincial government remains concerned at the potential spread of Covid-19 during such super-spreader events,” the government further stated. “Hospital admissions continue to increase and are placing a heavy strain on the healthcare system in both public and private sectors. The provincial government appeals to the people of Gauteng to act responsibly and desist from lawless acts that result in disruptions of much needed services by the citizens of Gauteng,” the government statement concluded. Also read: Kwesta dealt financial blow as EP is blocked due to Ayanda Jiya’s dispute with producer Ayanda Ncwane quits Real Housewives of Durban Open Mic Productions backs up Master KG claims over Jerusalema royalty claims Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World Sunday World