Johannesburg – Royal AM bosses have served the PSL with court papers and want acting CEO Mato Madlala to be sent to prison if she is found to be in contempt of court. In the court papers seen by Sunday World, Royal AM lawyers say that Madlala must be sent to jail for 30 days if she and the league are guilty of being in contempt of court. Royal AM’s papers are before the Joburg High Court and the matter will be heard on July 13. Their appeal and argument is that they are entitled to automatic promotion to the PSL. They say that the conduct of removing Royal AM from number one, to position two on the GladAfrica Championship league table was found by judge AJ Nyathi to be inconsistent with the constitution and the Promotion of Administrative Justice Act.   “Our view is that the PSL have acted against the order of judge Nyathi, which suspended the play-offs pending finalisation of our appeal. So, the PSL acted unlawfully and in contempt of court. If they are found guilty, their accounting authority, which is the CEO, must be imprisoned. “The play-offs were just a waste of time, money and resources – they should be declared null and void,” said Royal AM head of legal Happy Godi. Shauwn Mkhize, Royal AM owner, said that this was not just about football or sport. “This matter deals with very weighty and important matters of public and constitutional significance, which happened to play themselves in the area of sport of football. The alleged multiple breaches … by the NSL must accordingly be viewed in the most serious light.”   PSL prosecutor Nande Becker said: “I am seriously considering disciplinary steps with various charges in respect of all four matches which Royal AM refused to honour its obligations.” Also read: Historic week for SA after Constitutional Court sentenced Zuma to prison ANC again bows to Zuma’s demands Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World 