Johannesburg – The National Lottery Operator, Ithuba, has announced that the PowerBall Plus jackpot from Friday 09 June 2021 of over R22 Million has been won, by three lucky players. Ithuba said that each player will receive an impressive R7 million from the PowerBall Plus jackpot amount. “The winning numbers from this draw are 05, 14, 25, 26, 44, and the PowerBall is 08. The first winning ticket was purchased on the ABSA Banking App, with a ticket wager of R45 using the Quick Pick selection method,” Ithuba said. “Our second winning ticket was purchased at SPAR Georgious in Fort Beaufort, in Eastern Cape. The winner spent R45 on the winning ticket using the manual selection method. Our third winning ticket was purchased just hours before the draw took place in Faerie Glen Pretoria, Johannesburg,” Ithuba further stated. The lucky winner that has already come forward to claim his winnings spent R45 on the winning ticket using the manual selection method. The CEO of Ithuba, Charmaine Mabuza, said, “A big congratulations to our PowerBall Plus jackpot winners, we are excited to see many of our players opting to play the National Lottery on the various platforms that we have available to our players. We expanded the National Lottery footprint so that all South Africans have an equal opportunity to win life-changing jackpots. We urge all players to check their PowerBall tickets”, said Mabuza. Winners of R50 000 and more receive extensive financial advice as well as trauma counselling from qualified psychologists, to help them deal with their new financial circumstances. These advisory services come at no cost to the winner. Also read: Music icon Tsepo Tshola has passed away from a Covid-19 related illness Fashion designer seeking donations for cancer treatment Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World Sunday World