Johannesburg – South African president, Cyril Ramaphosa has issued a stern warning to protesters breaking the law in the country. “Fellow South Africans, there is another matter of great national importance that I wish to address. In the past few days, we have seen sporadic but increasingly violent protests in some parts of the country,” Ramaphosa said during his address to the nation on the government’s latest response to the pandemic that the country is facing. “Key infrastructure like national roads have been affected, slowing down the transportation of goods and services that keep our economy running,” Ramaphosa further said. Ramaphosa said, “Property has been destroyed. Cars have been stoned. People have been intimidated and threatened, and some have even been hurt.   These acts are endangering lives and damaging our efforts to rebuild the economy.” Watch:  NON TRIBALISM “This must be condemned by all South Africans at all costs as we are a nation committed to non-racialism and non-tribalism, underpinned by the diversity & unity of all the people of South Africa, whatever their language, culture, religious beliefs & race,” the president stated. “Our commitment to our democratic Constitution is based on the fundamental principle that all people are equal before the law, and that all people have the right to equal protection before the law,” Ramaphosa further said.  Constitutional Court “Since the advent of democracy, institutions like the Constitutional Court have been at the forefront of improving the lives of South Africans,” Ramaphosa said.  Without fear or favour “Those found guilty of breaking the lockdown regulations will receive the stipulated penalty.   This will be done without fear or favour,” Ramaphosa warned. “We also condemn attempts to create confusion by sharing false images and videos, often from events that took place many years ago. I ask that you think carefully before sharing anything on social media or elsewhere that may not be accurate or verified.”   Also read: ‘Jerusalema’ singer Nomcebo Zikode in the cold as Zanda Zakuza sings her tunes Nomcebo drags record label to court for unpaid royalties for Jerusalema Jerusalema fallout: Master KG hits back at Nomcebo Open Mic Productions backs up Master KG claims over Jerusalema royalty claims Kwesta dealt financial blow as EP is blocked due to Ayanda Jiya’s dispute with producer Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World Ashley Lechman