Johannesburg – S, prompting the police, pharmaceutical companies and researchers to come together to raise awareness of the problem. David Bayever, a research coordinator in the department of pharmacy and pharmacology in the faculty of health sciences at Wits, said South Africa had seen a rapid increase in the consumption of “lean” among young people. Lean is said to be a mixture of codeine, which is found in cough mixtures, and other ingredients including fizzy drinks. The mixture is known to have an intoxicating effect that calms and relaxes the user and this can last anywhere between three to six hours. “The state of euphoria is believed to fuel creative thinking,” said Bayever. He said the pain medicine is addictive when consumed in large quantities and abusing it may lead to effects such as body aches, breathing difficulties, impaired vision, organ damage and, in some cases, death. The Norwood community police forum (CPF) in Johannesburg, together with Adcock Ingram, has taken it upon itself to spread the dangers of using lean in various communities through their #LeanOnMe campaign. “The project LeanOnMe is a collaborative effort among key stakeholders namely; the community [youth and parents], the police, pharmacies, pharmaceutical companies, marketing PR agencies and other like-minded bodies,” said Bayever William Preston from the Norwood CPF said during the past year the forum, together with the police, visited most of the community parks in the Norwood area and noticed that the children who frequent these parks are easily exposed to drugs.   Preston said the CPF has also partnered with LifeLine, which is assisting those who need treatment. Bayever urged parents to become alert to the signs and symptoms and to be able to assist their children and offer the necessary support through the #LeanOnSupport campaign. He encouraged parents to look out for the following signs: abnormal pale complexion, changes in sleep patterns, frequent illness due to lowered resistance to infection, runny nose, coughing and chest pains, changes in appetite, weight loss or complete loss of appetite and constipation, and neglect of personal appearance and grooming. Behavioural and personality changes should also concern parents. He advised parents to also be on the look-out for tin foil kept or found in pockets, incense burnt in a room and excessive use of deodorants and eyedrops, rolled or twisted cigarettes, powders, seeds, leaves, plants, mushrooms, capsules and tablets, pipes and pipe fittings. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World 