Johannesburg – Record label Open Mic Productions has weighed in on the Nomcebo Zikode and Kgaogelo “Master KG” Moagi Jerusalema royalty matter. This comes after the two artists became embroiled in a public war over royalties for the song and announcing tours, where the song was to be performed without including one another in their respective ‘solo’ tours. Nomcebo Zikode accused Kgaogelo “Master KG” Moagi and Open Mic Productions of not paying her royalties owed to her and being replaced as the singer on the track for a world tour. Master KG responded to Zikode’s claims on Twitter on Sunday morning after Sunday World broke the story about Zikode being left out of an international tour by Master KG last week. In a tweet, Master KG, said, “Last Year Nomcebo Started Jerusalema Tour Without Me And I Never Had A Problem And Few Weeks Back I Started My Tour And Then Nomcebo Went To The Media and Created a Story That I’m Leaving Her behind…I Dont Really Know Why Things Must Be Like This.” In a separate tweet, addressing the issues surrounding the royalties, Master KGs tweeted, “The Agreement Of Jerusalema Is 50/50 Between Me And Nomcebo But Wants 70% and I Must Get 30%.” View the statement issued by Zikode via her social media platforms below: Open Mic Productions has now come to the party, backing the claims made by Master KG in the form of a statement. “We note the utterances made by our artist Nomcebo Zlkode on social media in regard to payment for her featured artist role in the song Jerusolema by Master KG.  Whilst we do not make a habit of discussing our artist’s contractual matters to the public, Nomcebo’s utterances cannot be left uncorrected,” the company said in a statement. We can confirm that during the creation of the song that Master Kg ( the main artist) and Nomcebo Zikode (the featured artist) agreed on sharing 50/50 of Master Kgs earnings. The featured artist’s agreement which reflected an equal split between the two artists was drafted last year November for both parties to sign. Nomcebo Zikode through her legal team reviewed the contract and proposed for a higher percentage,” the statement continued. The company went on to state that since then, there has been back and forth communications between the involved parties, and the last engagement took place on 19 June 2021 with Zikode’s legal team.  “No payment has been made to either artist as yet because Nomcebo Zikode is yet to sign the featured artist agreement that essentially records what was agreed between herself and Master KG prior to the both of them going into the studio, to record Jerusalema,” the company further said in their statement. The statement concluded, “This is the agreement that stipulates amongst other matters, what percentage of Master KG’s artist royalties is payable to Nomcebo for her role as a featured artist in the song. These engagements remain ongoing and as soon as these are concluded and the agreement is signed by all parties, payment will be made immediately. This position is very well known to Nomcebo.” View some of the tweets from Master KG from today, below:       Also read: ‘Jerusalema’ singer Nomcebo Zikode in the cold as Zanda Zakuza sings her tunes Nomcebo drags record label to court for unpaid royalties for Jerusalema Jerusalema fallout: Master KG hits back at Nomcebo Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World Ashley Lechman