Johannesburg – PSL club Marumo Gallants have revealed the appointment of French coach Sebastien Migne as the team’s head coach in a move that has caught many by surprise. Gallants are happy to announce the appointment of its new coach Sebastien Bernard Henri Clement Migné, the club announced via a press statement. The 48-year-old French national had a stint as a coach for the Equatorial Guinea and the Kenyan national teams respectively. He also worked as a club manager for the Republic of Congo’s national team. Migné, arrived in Polokwane on Wednesday along with the new Belgian assistant coach, Jean-Francois Losciuto. The 49-year-old, Losciuto has worked in various African countries including Equatorial Guinea with Future Kings and Egypt with Tala ea El Geish Sporting Club. Locally, he also coached Black Leopards and Richards Bay. Both Migné and Losciuto hold UEFA qualifications and are excited about being part of The Gallants. The club also announced the appointment of former footballer, Harris Chueu, as the team’s new technical director. Chueu, 60, has extensive experience within the football fraternity and amongst others, he worked for Mamelodi Sundowns, Orlando Pirates and Supersport United. Players announced are Muhammd Zaid Patel27, who played for Spanish club Loja C D, Zimbabwean-born Learnmore Muyambo, 24, who played for Harare City and former Floriana player Joreon Lombe Lumu, 26, from the Netherlands. Striker Lumu said, “I am grateful to Marumo [Gallants] for inviting me to form part of the team. This will give me an opportunity to connect with my ancestral land as my father is African”. Marumo Gallants chairman Abram Sello has welcomed all the club’s appointments and believes that he has a strong team to compete in the [Premiership] next season. “It is an exciting time for us as a team to bring in such experienced individuals. We will be able to participate confidently in the PSL and the CAF Championship [CAF Confederation Cup]. I would also like to thank my technical management for working hard in the last few weeks to identify such good talent,” said Sello. Sello also said that the experience of Harris Chueu as technical director is of importance to the team. “We believe through his guidance we will be in a position to achieve our goals. Last season was not an easy ride as we were amongst the teams fighting relegation, but we survived and also won the Nedbank Cup.”  Also read: SA army reserve members called to report for duty Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World Xolile Mtshazo