Johannesburg – Car accident transformed the life of Relebohile, writes Kuli Roberts. I love my job because when I started doing it in the ’90s, it was hard to find black-owned beauty houses in South Africa. Fast forward to 2021 and we celebrate Afri-Berry, which has products for hair and skin owned by the beautiful Relebohile Moeng. Join me as I celebrate excellence and get to know how this young woman became a beauty mogul after an accident, which left her almost disfigured. So why did you start your business? After an accident that left me with over 150 stitches on my face, I looked for more affordable solutions to cure my scars and it was cold-pressed argan oil that yielded results. Following my retrenchment from work, my husband Fabian [Moeng] and I decided to do some research into skin and hair products. This led to the launch of our company Afri-Berry in 2011. What is it about? Afri-Berry is a multi-award winner and manufacturer of high-end repair and 100% organic and vegan skin and hair solutions that demonstrate positive results to the end user. Products are sold in most major retail stores. What is your favourite product? Cold-pressed Moroccan Gold argan oil. It can be used as a moisturiser. The oil contains over 96% Omega-3-6-9 fatty acids and has many uses and thus can be used on the skin, hair and body. Worst product in the market? Our virgin coconut oil. I guess because there are many substitutes in the market and people still need to be educated about the benefits of “virgin” coconut oil as opposed to the regular ones. If you were not in the beauty industry, what would you be doing? When I left the corporate world, I was an executive officer of Bonang Eye Care Centres, so it’s no brainer that I would be a CEO of a large corporation. Are you a morning person? My day starts at 3am. Favourite book? “Failing Forward” by leadership author John C Maxwell. Favourite song? “Everything must change” by Nina Simone. Favourite fashion house or designer and why? House of Fabrosanz. It’s a futuristic clothing brand proudly founded by a woman. Favourite soccer team? Khosi 4 Life. Favourite local destination? Kwa Maritane Bush Lodge in Pilanesberg National Park and Game Reserve.   Favourite restaurant? Pachas Restaurant. Favourite food to cook? Oxtail and sheep trotters. What inspires you? Faith. I don’t necessarily mean religion, though that is part of it. The faith I’m talking about here is the ability to have faith when times are hard. Faith that I will win, faith that life is made up of different seasons, and that things will be fine in some way, somehow, even when it doesn’t seem like that at the time. That is inspiring and it inspires me a lot. How long have you been doing this and is it difficult? We have been on this journey for 10 years, nothing in life worth having is easy. The industry by nature has very high barriers to entry. Favourite international destination and why? Dubai, with all of its glitz and glamour in the heart of the desert. What do you think South Africa needs? Leadership Favourite architectural style and why? Green contemporary house designs, open living spaces and, with the current load-shedding issues we have in the country, it’s the future of architecture. Also read: #ShutdownSA protests intensifies as army is deployed Gauteng protests hindering Emergency Medical Services responding to distress calls Watch: Zuma’s children show support for their dad and criticises Ramaphosa leadership Kwesta dealt financial blow as EP is blocked due to Ayanda Jiya’s dispute with producer Ayanda Ncwane quits Real Housewives of Durban Open Mic Productions backs up Master KG claims over Jerusalema royalty claims Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World Kuli Roberts