Johannesburg – Despite being hit by Covid-19 cases and players’ withdrawals, Bafana Bafana are soldiering on with their preparations for the Cosafa Cup that gets underway on Tuesday in Gqeberha. They arrived in the Windy City yesterday with 18 players and are training for their opening against Botswana on Tuesday. After Botswana, they will face Eswatini on Friday. Coach Helman Mkhalele, who is standing in for Hugo Broos, was forced to withdraw two members of the team who tested positive. The team doctor said the two would have to self-isolate, meaning that it will be too late for them to be brought back in camp by the time they recover. Siyanda Msani and Nyiko Mobi are the replacements and are expected in Gqeberha today after they underwent their Covid-19 tests on Friday. The former Orlando Pirates stalwart, who was also in charge of the Bafana team that defeated Uganda 3-2, told Sunday World yesterday that this has been a difficult camp because the players that were chosen as replacements have had to be replaced as well due to the coronavirus. “It’s tough, it’s difficult. I do not know how many replacements we have had to make. We chose players, we were forced to replace them and then again had to replace the replacements, it has been a nightmare but we continue to work hard,” said Mkhalele. Mkhalele is also saddened by Maritzburg United and Pirates who pulled their players out of the camp. The Bucs trio of Bongani Sam, Vincent Pule and Tshegofatso Mabasa are no longer part of the squad after the Buccaneers cited fatigue and injuries, and said the players needed to rest after an arduous season. “Teams like Pirates and Maritzburg United withdrew their players and I still do not understand why. “With Kaizer Chiefs, it makes sense because they have a big final to play and they need their players,” he added. Amakhosi players Happy Mashiane, Siyabonga Ngezana, and Bruce Bvuma also did not make the trip to the Eastern Cape because they will play in the CAF Champions League final against Al Ahly on July 17. Another notable absentee in the squad was Evans Makgopa, who blazed a trail in the international friendly against Uganda. Mkhalele said that the lanky 21-year-old striker was called up by the SA Under-23 coach David Notoane for the Olympic Games to be held in Tokyo, Japan, later this month. “But this has helped us to cast our net wide and to find new young players for the future. We have players from the GladAfrica Championship such as Bright Ndlovu [Jomo Cosmos], Monnapule Saleng [Free State Stars] and Yusuf Maart, who is playing for Sekhukhune United. “From the PSL, we added Masilake Phohlongo from TS Galaxy and Veli Mothwa of AmaZulu because coach Hugo wants to work with young players. “Despite the challenges, we should be ready for Botswana . We know them … They will not be pushovers, they lost 1-0 to African powerhouse Nigeria in the Afcon recently, they are a good team,” Mkhalele said. Also read: Historic week for SA after Constitutional Court sentenced Zuma to prison ANC again bows to Zuma’s demands Royal AM bosses want PSL CEO behind bars Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World 