Johannesburg – Former Kaizer Chiefs and Bidvest Wits coach Gavin Hunt has joined Gqeberha-based PSL side Chippa United for the new DStv Premiership season after signing a two-year deal. Hunt, 56, takes over from interim coach Lehlohonolo Seema, who has moved to Golden Arrows in Durban after successfully guiding the Chilli Boys though the PSL promotion/relegations play-offs that are currently in limbo due to litigation by Royal AM. The new Chippa head coach returns to top flight football after being fired at Chiefs two months ago following the Soweto giant’s dismal performance in the domestic league last season but was responsible for Amakhosi reaching the semifinals of the prestigious CAF Champions League. Hunt was shown the exit door only eight months into his three-year contract. Chiefs are now set to contest the final against north African football powerhouse Al Ahly, coach by SA mentor Pitso Mosimane, since Hunt could not see them through the semi-finals. The Glamour Boys’ assistant coach Arthur Zwane was in charge for the two-legged, home and away semi-final ties. At Chiefs, Hunt, who previously won three league titles while at SuperSport United and one during one of his longest tenures as a coach at Wits, has since been replaced by returnee English tactician Stuart Baxter. “Chippa United Football Club is pleased to announce the appointment of Gavin Hunt as the Club’s new Head Coach. Welcome to Eastern Cape, The Home Of The Chilli Boys,” the club said in a statement. “Gavin Hunt will begin preparing the Eastern Cape club with immediate effect after agreeing [to] a two-year contract with the Chilli Boys,” said Hunt’s management company MSC Sports in a media release. “I see this as a massive challenge, and one that really excites me,” said Hunt. “The Eastern-Cape as a region is where so many fantastic South African sportsmen and women hail from and this area is certainly deserves a successful Football Club that the locals can be proud of. Hunt said that there are some very good players currently at the Club and with the addition of a new more Chippa will be very competitive. Hunt will be jointed at Chippa by Roy Limongelli who was with him at Bidvest Wits FC. Limongelli will fulfil an administrative role supporting the Coach. His assistant will be announced in due course. Also read: Zuma will be arrested if police don’t hear from ConCourt before midnight Zuma backer Carl Niehaus suspended from ANC for war talk   Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World Xolile Mtshazo